Yeah, I think the Woodlands has done
extraordinarily well in continuing to develop
along the objectives that were set, not even in
1974 when it opened, but in the late 60s. That's a
long period of time to stay true to an ideal. In
fact, when HUD terminated, it had to do an
environmental impact statement that was
required by law. And one of the findings it had to
make was whether the public interest would be
protected or at least well served by that federal
action of their getting out of the program. And
since they had invested public monies in the
woodlands and the grants and whatnot that we
talked about, they had to make a finding as to what
that the woodlands would continue to develop
along the lines where, as opposed to the developer
going off and abandoning the concept. And it is a
record in that environmental impact statement
and the findings that I've made that the woodlands
was going to continue. The developer was
committed to it, to the plan, And that
irrespective of the federal involvement, the
Woodlands is going to continue to develop as it had
set out to do, which coincidentally is the same
thing that we're saying to the residents today in
dealing with transition. Just because we're
going to create another association doesn't mean
that we're going to change the pattern of
development. People are saying to us, we bought
here, our biggest investment in our lives is the
house. We bought here. because of what the
Woodlands is. And we don't want to see that change.
And we're saying, we're not changing that. In
fact, the reason that we're creating the other
association is so that we can control the
Development Standards Committee ourselves to
make sure that we can continue to develop like
this. But anyway, HUD made that finding. I think
over time, there are going to be a lot of pressures
on the Woodlands,
which might cause some people within the
Development Corporation to question whether we
should continue developing like this. There have
been pressures in the past. And certainly the
presence of Mr. Mitchell is going to make sure that
we don't deviate from the straight and narrow, so
to speak. But I think over time, since this is a
long-term project, there will be pressures if Mr.
Mitchell retires and other people come to the
helm. In my mind, as an employee and as a resident,
you've got to wonder if the next person sitting in
his seat will have the same commitment to the ideal
that he has. I hope that person does. We are
a unique project, certainly in this part of the
country and one of only several in the nation. We
have shown that it can be done and can be done
profitably. I know one of Mr. Mitchell's
objectives in going into this program was to be a
demonstration project and hope that others would
emulate what we're doing. I think we have
influenced other developments in the Houston
area to be done on a master plan basis. But the
future for all of us is uncertain.
I think that a public company needs to look at
bottom-line profit. There's always pressure to
do that, and building these kinds of projects is
not the most profitable type of real estate
development that one can go into. There's an awful
lot of overhead. There's an awful lot of overhead.
There's a lot of front-end, a lot of capital costs
that need to... accounting terms be capitalized,
and the realization of the profits on those is down
the road. So I think it will be a challenge for
Mitchell Energy and Development over the years as
to whether it wants to continue with this
development. All of us hope that it will, and hope
that Mr. Mitchell's successors have the same
commitment that he has. That, to me, is, you know, I
think we've done a splendid job to date, and I think
we'll continue to do a good job. But there's an
uncertainty in my mind. That's where it lays. You
don't perceive it. One of the things I've picked
up, or I think I have, is that there's a profound
commitment among the executives we've talked to
to the ideals that Mr. Mitchell espouses. That's
one of the reasons why I gather they're here. Yeah,
there isn't an executive in this company who
couldn't be making more money someplace else,
guaranteed.
But the combination of professional challenge
and excitement from working on this kind of
project, together with being able to live in this
environment, is what keeps people here. It's very
fulfilling. And as I say, depending on who
succeeds Mr. Mitchell, I dearly hope that, I
probably shouldn't be talking, Mitchell will
probably outlast me, but he's that kind of guy. But
this is a long-term project, and realistically we
have to anticipate that. And I hope the corporate
commitment is as profound as you say. as it is
embodied in the one man. Certainly people who work
for the Woodlands Corporation share that. This is
something completely aside. Most of the
Woodlands Corporation people we've talked to
live here in the woodlands. How prevalent is that
with the energy company? Do you know a percentage
of the people over there across the street that
live in the woodlands? I don't know
percentage-wise, but, and again, I don't know of
too many people over there, but of the people that I
know in energy, in corporate, virtually all of
them . So there is probably, I mean, it would seem to
me a resident is going to be much more interested in
the community. Oh, yeah. In fact, after fashion, I
adopted a policy, an urgent policy for the
community association board that the
CORPORATION APPOINTED PEOPLE HAD TO BE WOODLANDS
RESIDENTS ALSO. AND WHEN THAT HAPPENED, YOU'D BE
SURPRISED AT THE DIFFERENT AWARENESS LEVELS AND
SENSITIVITIES OF THE PEOPLE SERVING ON THAT
BOARD. THERE'S ONE GENTLEMAN WHO
LIVED ON 1960 IN THE 1960 AREA FOR A LONG WHILE AND
SERVED ON THE BOARD.
When he moved to the woodlands, he became radical.
I had to calm him down.
A residential perspective causes you to make
different decisions. But I would dare say a large
percentage of the energy people. living in the
woodlands, most of the ones that I'm familiar with
do. Because it was obvious that may be one of the
enduring strengths of the corporations, the fact
that people have bought into the dream, the
vision, whatever you want to call it, and they live
it out. Are you inadvertently, intimately
involved in, say, recruitment of industry to the
woodlands, or the job? I know this is a matter of
some concern, promoting new jobs, new
opportunities. Only tangentially. If an
industry is looking at coming to the woodlands,
then because of my work with the county, if they're
looking for tax abatement, I might get involved.
If they're very, they're almost always
interested in education, and I'm the principal
contact person with the school district and also
serve on the board of the John Cooper School, the
private school there. So if education's
important, I'll help put whatever package, that
part of that package together. And if they want tax
abatement, then I'll introduce that notion to the
community association. to see if they want to get
tax paid. But I'm not out recruiting industry or
anything like that. I just thought you might get
quickly looped into being where you are. Which
brings up another issue. Were you involved in the
efforts to bring University of Houston up here?
No, not really. Oh, OK. Because of this kind of
continuing issue, we chased around the block a
couple of times, but never really got a tag on them.
No. The gentleman who's most directly involved
with that is David Gottlieb. We're going to talk to
him. David was with the University of Houston.
They came to work for us about four years ago. And
he's been on both sides of that fence, so he might
probe him on that.